docs/01_get_started/installation.rst, before:

############
Installation
############

--------------

****************
Install with pip
****************

Install any supported version of PyTorch if you want from `PyTorch Installation Page <https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/#start-locally>`_.
Now you can install using `pip <https://pypi.org/project/SoccerTrack/>`_ using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install soccertrack

You will neeed to install the following dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash
    pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning


To use torch reid, you will need to install the following dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash
    pip install git+https://github.com/KaiyangZhou/deep-person-reid.git

We recommed using poetry to handle dependencies. So you can also install poetry and run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry install
    poetry run pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning 
    poetry run pip install git+https://github.com/KaiyangZhou/deep-person-reid.git


.. warning::
    The software is currently in development so it will break and change frequently! Star or watch the repo to get notified of updates. Anything before version 1.0.0 is not considered stable and may break at any time (sorry!).

Commit message:

docs: Update installation instructions and remove user guide section
- Update installation method to use conda instead of pip
- Remove warning about software being in development and not stable
- Delete "User Guide" section and "Developer Guide" section from documentation

docs/01_get_started/installation.rst, after:

############
Installation
############

--------------

**************************
Install with pip (outdate)
**************************

Install any supported version of PyTorch if you want from `PyTorch Installation Page <https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/#start-locally>`_.
Now you can install using `pip <https://pypi.org/project/SoccerTrack/>`_ using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install soccertrack

You will neeed to install the following dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash
    pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning


To use torch reid, you will need to install the following dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash
    pip install git+https://github.com/KaiyangZhou/deep-person-reid.git

We recommed using poetry to handle dependencies. So you can also install poetry and run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    poetry install
    poetry run pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning 
    poetry run pip install git+https://github.com/KaiyangZhou/deep-person-reid.git


.. warning::
    Installation via pip is currently updated and will not work. Please use the conda installation method.

******************
Install with conda
******************

At the moment, creating a conda environment is not supported. However, you can install the dependencies using conda and then install the package by cloning and using pip.
I use this method whenever I want to install the package on a new machine.

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/AtomScott/TeamTrack.git
    conda create -y --name soccertrack python=3.10
    conda activate soccertrack

    python -m pip install -e .
    python -m pip install torch torchvision pytorch-lightning
    python -m pip install git+https://github.com/KaiyangZhou/deep-person-reid.git
    python -m pip install ultralytics
    python -m pip install git+https://github.com/openai/CLIP.git
